# Preface

Before we get begin I wanted to give you a little background on Overengineered and some of the 
original problems I set out to solve. Hopefully this will help set the direction and tone of this
book.

First, why Overengineered and what does the name mean? We'll it embodies the spirit of *"I'll 
spend four hours automating this task that only takes me five minutes to complete."* Now what 
defines our platform and vision is a little more complicated. It mainly derives from a few 
different things inspired by my career.

I've worked within a large tech company for the last ten years solving problems of various scale. 
My strength has always been solving problems that drastically increase operational and development
efficiency. Within a company like this we're often highly well tuned engines. Software 
engineering, data science, data engineering, production engineering, user research, language,
content design, and many others all working efficiency to identify and tackle these problems. We 
prioritize and eleminate cognitive and physical manual work. This essentially allows entire 
organizations to maintain minimal budget increases year over year as the number of end users 
within their products scale to billions of users.

Applying this same discipline to my personal projects, where I attempt to have direct impact in my 
day to day has always been a challenge. Whether it be household budgeting, time spent on daily 
errands, and chores. The scope of solving some of these problems is substantial. It's unfortunate 
that I have not come across a solution to having all the readily building blocks to hack a project
within a weekend. I end up burning a significant amount of calories planning, budgeting materials,
setting up my infrastructure, writing the glue code between services or devices.

More often than not I end up in a debate with myself if I should use a cloud service or spend the 
extra effort to build solution.

The other driving factors that influence Overengineered is the general populations sentiment 
towards technology companies and tech today. To me, the driving factor of this seems to be trust. 
People want their data secure, protected, private, and available. The industry seems to be leaning 
toward blockchain to attempt to solve problem. It is a great tool and has a purpose, but in my 
opinion is generally to expensive and slow to be used everywhere.

So, I asked myself, why not bring the cloud infrastructure home? Make it as easy as Installing an
operating system. Adding a new computer or device is as easy as scanning a QR code. This is 
prefect for processing sensitive and private data such as facial recognition on security cameras. 
As well as tracking individuals throughout the house to apply individualized home automation and
contextual interaction with IoT devices. 

If we are hosting our own trusted infrastructure, we still want to be able to create 
innerconnected and social experinces. This is where we can build a data service and abstraction 
layer, including public registry support to download and managing data schemas.

Progressive web apps can connect to any one or more hosted data service and in the event the 
server does not have the required dependencies, they can be fetched from one of the avalible 
registries. This public and transparent data model approach has the added benefit of creating a 
large data graph. Other abstractions can be made on top to provide a federated learning platform. 

Not only could this enrich the value of user data to something beyond whats easily attainable 
today. But gives the true owner of the data power and the ability to monetize their own anonymized
data in a safe and secure manor.

This defines our north stars or what I hope to achieve. This is a long term vision and much of 
this will inevitably change. Thank you for reading, and enjoy. :)

-- Sean O'Rourke
